feat(new): Added Azure.EventHub.Firewall (#2872)
Azure/PSRule.Rules.Azure: docs/en/rules/Azure.EventHub.Firewall.md

---
severity: Critical
pillar: Security
category: SE:06 Network controls
resource: Event Hub
online version: https://azure.github.io/PSRule.Rules.Azure/en/rules/Azure.EventHub.Firewall/
---

# Access to the namespace endpoints should be restricted to only allowed sources

## SYNOPSIS

Access to the namespace endpoints should be restricted to only allowed sources.

## DESCRIPTION

By default, Event Hub namespaces are accessible from public internet.

With the firewall feature, it is possible to either fully disabling public network access by ensuring that the namespace endpoints isn't exposed on the public internet or configure rules to only accept traffic from specific addresses.

## RECOMMENDATION

> Consider configuring Event Hub namespaces to disable public network access, using private endpoints to control connectivity or configure the firewall to only allow traffic from from specific addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider restricting network access to the Event Hub namespace by requiring private endpoints or by limiting access to permitted client addresses with the service firewall.
```

## EXAMPLES

### Configure with Azure template

To deploy Event Hub namespaces that pass this rule:

> - Set the `properties.publicNetworkAccess` property to `Disabled` or configure the sub-resource `Microsoft.EventHub/namespaces/networkRuleSets` with the `properties.publicNetworkAccess` property to `Disabled` or/and the `properties.defaultAction` property to `Deny`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set the `properties.publicNetworkAccess` property to `Disabled` to require private endpoints. OR
- Alternatively, you can configure the `Microsoft.EventHub/namespaces/networkRuleSets` sub-resource by:
  - Setting the `properties.publicNetworkAccess` property to `Disabled` to require private endpoints. OR
  - Setting the `properties.defaultAction` property to `Deny` to restrict network access to the service by default.
```

For example:

```json
{
  "type": "Microsoft.EventHub/namespaces",
  "apiVersion": "2024-01-01",
  "name": "[parameters('name')]",
  "location": "[parameters('location')]",
  "identity": {
    "type": "SystemAssigned"
  },
  "sku": {
    "name": "Standard"
  },
  "properties": {
    "disableLocalAuth": true,
    "minimumTlsVersion": "1.2",
    "publicNetworkAccess": "Disabled",
    "zoneRedundant": true
  }
}
```

### Configure with Bicep

To deploy Event Hub namespaces that pass this rule:

> - Set the `properties.publicNetworkAccess` property to `Disabled` or configure the sub-resource `Microsoft.EventHub/namespaces/networkRuleSets` with the `properties.publicNetworkAccess` property to `Disabled` or/and the `properties.defaultAction` property to `Deny`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Set the `properties.publicNetworkAccess` property to `Disabled` to require private endpoints. OR
- Alternatively, you can configure the `Microsoft.EventHub/namespaces/networkRuleSets` sub-resource by:
  - Setting the `properties.publicNetworkAccess` property to `Disabled` to require private endpoints. OR
  - Setting the `properties.defaultAction` property to `Deny` to restrict network access to the service by default.
```
